Friends here our concept is arithmetic operators.
Say basically in our shells taped,
the default data type of a variable is a string.
I mean, if I store any number in a variable,
and that number may be integer or float.
But he was shelved me, consider that as a string.
Even if you store string AND available,
that is also considered as a string.
So because of this,
it is somewhat difficult to perform mathematical operations using your shell script.
So if you want to perform any advanced level mathematical operations,
then please go with either Pearl or Python script and include that in our shell script.
However, we need some minimum,
basic arithmetic operations to perform our shell scripts.
Further, it will support by using different utilities or commands that are
like declare, expression and let.
And these three commands or wold ways to perform your arithmetic operations.
I'm not going to discuss about these three.
Now the advanced level commands Syntax
is to perform your arithmetic operations or parenthesis and bash calculator BC.
And here parenthesis or valid to perform arithmetic operations on integers.
But using bash calculator,
you can use your data as integers or maybe float numbers.
Now let me explain them on your terminal.
Suppose I am taking X equals to some seven and y equals two. Let me take fine.
Now I want to find the addition of these two,
and I want to store that in the variable called sum.
Then directly start with parenthesis, two parentheses,
sum equals to x plus y.
Then printing the result dollar sum.
But you can also find subtraction.
Let me do that.
X minus y. Let me take this as subtraction,
not try to print that.
Now let subtraction.
Now, you can also find multiplications.
Let me take variable as multiplication then X star Y.
Now see there is a, you can also do some division operation.
Now let me take division equals two.
Suppose I am taking x division white.
But see the result.
You got to understand here.
You're getting result as only one,
actually had to get one dot something.
So that is a float result that is not possible with the word parenthesis symbol.
You can also find some remainder.
Now let me find reminder equals to x remainder, right?
Now let me print it that reminder.
Yes, you're getting fine.
Now you can also increment your value by one and decrement your value by one.
Let's say I'm having x already as seven.
Suppose if I do x plus plus,
then see the result.
What is there now in your x eight?
And again, decrement your value.
Let me take two, decrement your value.
I am taking y as of now way value is phi,
I'm doing Y minus minus.
Now see the result.
What is there in your white?
Previously it was phi nowadays for And one more thing while performing in this way.
These two, I mean,
here we are using two variables.
It may be one variable and directly you can
substitute one has value also, let me do one thing.
Let me take suppose some.
So anywhere some, I'm doing x currently x-value is eight,
x plus ten. Now see the result.
I mean, you can take either variable or directly,
you can take your value also.
What happened?
Yeah, it is sum not Iulium.
You're getting 188 plus ten.
And you can also shoot both our values also.
So I'm taking suppose some two plus ten.
Now see there is a yes,
you are getting to a fine.
And directly if you want to print the result of any operation,
you can use the ACO, be clear,
I'm taking dollar, $1.2 parenthesis.
Suppose I am taking four plus some three.
Now see there is a, you can directly print your result by using dollar for
your syntax with the echo command. Right, fine.
Now, suppose if we want to get your result in terms of float,
then you are parenthesis.
Syntax is not applicable.
Now let me take, suppose I am taking x equals to 4.5 and y equals,
I'm taking suppose some 3.What to 3.5. then I'm finding some sum equals to x plus y.
Now see that syntax error,
Invalid arithmetic operator error token is.5.
That means actually what data is in terms of flow.
That's why it is not possible.
In that case, you have to take bash calculator.
Now, let me get a syntax for your bash calculator, simply bc.
Before that guys, you should have a bash calculator on your host.
Some operating systems may not come with your bash calculator.
Then in that case, you how to install your bass using yum install with iPhones
or BC hyphen y with root privileges if you're not the root user.
Right? See already our bash.
That's what I look like and use that.
So simply bash calculator b,
c, less than, less than,
less than three times.
Then in quotations that Italy, right,
you are variables but in terms of dollar x plus dollar y.
So here dollar is required.
Now see there is a, we are getting 7.7.
Fine.
Now let me take one more variable called X equals to some six.
And I am taking y equals to some 700, 4-5 something.
Now I want to find the y division with six.
Then I am taking BEC calculator, less than, less than,
less than quotations, dollar x,
dollar y, division, dollar x.
But see the output first,
you are getting integer number.
Definitely are going to get result as some float.
But you are getting only integer. So in that case.
You have to mention scale.
Scale equals two.
I want to get at least one floating point in your result.
Yes, now you are getting, if you want to get two floating points,
if there is a second floating point,
then you will get that number. Otherwise you'll get 0.
Yes, there is 16.
Let me take four.
That's a 666 you are getting.
So if we take any scale,
you will get always all R6.
Fine.
Now let me write a symbol shell script to find the addition,
subtraction multiplication or something like that.
See, I am writing arithmetic operations from dot SH.
So I am writing very first-line as our shebang line.
So I'm taking user bin bash.
I am defining x equals to some y,
sorry five and y equals to some ID nine, you can take anything.
Then I'm finding, suppose directly I am finding some c.
Observe that some, I'm taking two parenthesis,
some Nikos to simply x plus y here you should not known it to take your parentheses,
sorry, dollar for your variables,
simply write sum equals to x plus y.
Then after that, simply print the word sum.
So if you want to get some messages, you can modify that.
I will show you that you're getting 94 because 8994.
Now instead of printing in the way,
I can also print it this one way.
I mean the addition of your 1, y 0s.
So whatever the values you are having in your x and y that I'm printing,
that's a very just to decorate your output.
Yes, you're getting 589 edition is 94.
That's fine. Now, let me find some division, see friends.
Whenever if you are using division,
please use Bash calculator.
Suppose I am taking same shell script,
but here I am finding.
And one more thing, yeah, see,
this is a command here somewhere we did with bash skeleton, right?
Let me, this is a comment.
So if you want to assign this command result into a variable,
we have a syntax for it is that any command output we can store integer variable.
Suppose I am storing this into a variable called my result equals
$2 parenthesis inside that you had to write your syntax. Be clear on that.
There is a bash calculator is a command.
Now that command result I want to assign to a variable,
then you have to use our syntax,
either back stick or dollar parenthesis.
Now see the result, my result.
So you are 12V 4.1a,
66 will be there in my result.
Now, same thing you can use in your shell script also.
Now I am finding why division with fine.
Now let me do that.
So results simply I'm taking equals $2 parenthesis,
bash calculator three less than,
then quotation, then I'm rating
scale equal to suppose I want to get at these three points,
then semicolon, right? Diva.
Dollar x, I mean,
I ended divide wavy takes dollar y slash dollar x.
So here we need,
here we need dollar for your variables,
but anywhere parenthesis symbol,
no need to take dollar.
That's it.
Now after that, I can print my result in this way.
So simply the division of
width x is so that result we stored in our variable called result. That's it.
Now let me show you the core ones and let me run this.
Yes, you are getting.
Now, if you run our shell script any number of
times it is going to get always result as 9417.
But I don't want to work in this Weber number.
If I run my shell escape,
it has to ask Enter your first number and the second number.
Then I want to find the addition.
Then I am writing one more shall skim,
read and find I am writing only for some,
you can apply that for your different operations as well as h. So it is important guys,
user bin bash, I mean,
not the core concept.
Read iPhone P, enter reward. First number.
So I can take any variable.
Suppose I am taking simply.
Then read hyphen p,
enter your second number.
Then I am taking that as a b.
Then I wanted to find the addition of these two.
Then simply use parenthesis.
If you are expecting your inputs are integers,
then let me simply take sum equals to E a plus B. That's it.
Then print the addition of a and B is,
then you can write some that's now changed more plus x read.
Then run your shell script and see the result.
So it is asking, yeah, before that,
let me open your code must cat.
Because by seeing this,
you can understand what is,
what are the steps you are having in your shell script.
For the very first step, you are trying to read
the first number and we are storing that in the year.
So whatever I enter here that will store into variable called E,
then I'm entering one more number 35, then result,
you are getting a D. But Simscape,
I'm providing for 0.5c.
I mean, flood points.
I am providing phi dot six C that it is not possible.
So that's why if you are expecting your result, I mean,
if your inputs in terms of a float on your result also in terms of float,
then use Bash calculator, that's a better one.
But this parenthesis symbols are useful in
your loops because we are going to repeat some loop,
these many number of times, some ten times,
a 100 times, some 20 times or based on some requirement at the time.
Parenthesis symbols or useful.
Right? Now what I'm doing is simply I'm taking,
I commented that previous code,
sum equals $2 parentheses.
That's why I'm taking dollar parentheses because bash calculator is
the command that result I'm storing in a variable called sum.
That's why I use dollar parenthesis.
Then quotations, skill.
I wanted to get up to, to float points.
Then you are variables.
Dollar a, place, dollar b.
Close your quotations, close your parenthesis, and that's,
you know, let me run and see the result 30 for providing that lineage in numbers.
Yes, it's working. Now.
I am providing some float points.
It is also working. So Bash culture, it is the best one.
But make sure that before going to use our bash calculator,
usually either bash calculator on your host.
That's it. Okay.
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.